channel benchmark case
================================

The problem consists of a 0.146m x 0.146m x 0.292m column of water, initially at rest, that collapses under 
the action of gravity and impacts a stationary object. The computational domain is a rectangular box with 
dimensions 0.584m x 0.146m x 0.350m. The top of the domain is left open. For more details, see runfiles or references.

Preprocessing
--------------------------------
No postprocessing is necessary for running this case. 
The first lines of channel.py the discretion and formulation can be chosen by modifying the following lines.

 - Refinement = 2              ==>  Controls the global level or refinement  e.g. 5 ==> 32x16x16     
 - spaceOrder = 1 / 2          ==>  Choose linear or quadratic elements
 - useHex     = True / False   ==>  Choose hexahedral or tetrahedral elements
 - useRBLES   = 0.0 / 1.0      ==>  Choose SUPG  (0.0) or RBLES/VMS (1.0) for stabilizing the Navier-Stokes equations
 - useMetrics = 0.0 / 1.0      ==>  Choose h-based (0.0) or metric based (1.0) numerical parameters

Running
--------------------------------
The benchmark can be run using the following command:

::

  mpirun -n #NP parun channel_so.py -l 3 -v -O petsc.options -D lin_tet_3

where #NP stand for the number of processors. The final argument, which specifies the output directory, is optional. 
Or use one of the run.#HOST.pbs run files.

Postprocessing
--------------------------------
For extracting column heights and width a separate pvpython scripts are
supplied in $PROTEUS_MPRANS/scripts. To be able to run the scripts pvpython needs to be installed. This is a special 
python shipped with paraview. Furthermore, the scripts assumed there is one master xmf file.  This master xmf file 
can be generated by running the following command in the directory containing the xmf/h5 solution files.

::
    
  $PROTEUS/proteusModule/scripts/gatherArchives.py -s #NP -f channel_p  

This will generate a file channel_p_all#NP.xmf which can be used for extracting column heights and width by running 
the following commands in the directory containing the xmf/h5 solution files.

::

  $PROTEUS_MPRANS/scripts/channelExtractHeightAndWidth.py -f channel_p_all#NP.xmf

This will produce the file height.txt that contain the height and width time series.
The experimental data is provided by the file sakamoto_exp.dat 

For visualizing purposes it might be beneficial to repackage the xmf/h5 solution files. 
There are three distinct reasons/benefits to do this:

1) The script allows skipping time steps and only extracts variable deemed important, 
   thereby greatly reducing the file size and hence the time to copy data form remote location.
2) In the resulting solution files every time step has a distinct solution file, 
   which allows visualization of results while the simulation is still running.
3) The scripts also outputs VTK files which allows visualization with VisIt (and others). 

Repackaging of the solution can be done by running the following commands in the directory containing the xmf/h5 solution files.

::
  
  $PROTEUS_MPRANS/scripts/extractSolution.py -f ../channel_p -s #start -e #end -i #incr -n #NP  

where #start end #end are the begin and end timestep number and #incr is a increment time step (aka stride) and #NP is again the number of processors.

For convenience all the postprocesing mentioned above are lumped in a simple script. This script can be run using  
following commands in the directory containing the xmf/h5 solution files.

::
   postpro.sh


References
--------------------------------
 S. Koshizuka, H. Tamako, Y. Oka 
"A particle method for incompressible viscous flow with fluid fragmentation"
Computational Fluid Mechanics Journal, 113 (1995) 134-147

R. Elias, A. Coutinho
"Stabilized edge-based finite element simulation of free-surface flows"
International Journal of Numerical Methods in Fluids 54 (2007) 965-993

C. E. Kees, I. Akkerman, M. W. Farthing and Y. Bazilevs
"a Conservative Level Set Method for Variable-Order Approximations and Unstructured Meshes"
Journal of Computational Physics, 230-12(2011) 3402-3414,  doi:10.1016/j.jcp.2011.02.030


